Even in great stress the eye is unconscious of the sense of taste; and so, into whatever straits he may come, he will not
fall into the power of the Passions.

It would be better for me to be burned, to have my head cut off and to be killed,rather then ever bowing down to those ev
er-present disturbing conceptions.(So likewise in all situations I should do nothing other than what is fit.)

He will utterly give himself over to whatever task arrives, greedy for the work, insatiate of spirit, like one who lusts 
for the delight issuing from his sport.

Every work is done for the sake of happiness, whether the happiness come or no; but how can he whose happiness is work it
self be happy in doing no work?

Desires, like honey on the edge of a razor’s blade, bring no contentment in life; but what satiety can there be from the 
divine draughts of righteous deeds, that are blessed and sweet in their issue?

Then when one work is brought to an end, he will plunge into another, as the elephant, vexed by the heat of midday, plung
es straightway into the lake that he finds.

But when his strength fails, he will withdraw from his work; and if it be happily ended, he will leave it, in eagerness f
or more and more tasks.

He will guard himself against the blows of the Passions, as though fighting with the sword against a skilful foe.

As one in fear swiftly takes up again a fallen sword, so he will take up the fallen sword of remembrance, bethinking hims
elf of hell.

As poison that has reached the blood spreads through the body, so the sin that finds a weak spot spreads through the spir
it.

A man carrying a bowl full of oil, surrounded by soldiers with drawn swords, in fear of death if he should trip, will wal
k heedfully; and so it is with him that is under the vow.

Then when slumber and faintness fall upon him, he will strive against them as speedily as one springs up when a serpent i
s creeping into his lap.

Whenever he is caught unawares, he will be sorely grieved, and consider what he should do that it may not befall him agai
n.

For the sake of this he will desire godly company or tasks to come in his way, that his remembrance may be exercised in t
hese conditions.

Remembering the Sermon on heedfulness, he will hold himself in readiness, so that even before a task comes to him he is p
repared to turn to every course.

As the seed of the cotton-tree is swayed at the coming and going of the wind, so will he be obedient to his resolution; a
nd thus divine power is gained.

Chapter VII: The Perfect Strength

