If that for which I live is lost, what profits life itself which is spent wholly in ungodliness?

“I hate him who speaks to my blame, for he brings creatures to destruction”—then why art thou not angry against him who r
ails at others?

Thou bearest with the unkindly when their unkindness touches others, and bearest not with the caviller who touches on the
growth of thy vices!

It is unfit for me to hate them that destroy or revile images, sanctuaries, or the Good Law; for the Enlightened and thei
r company thereby take no hurt.

If men wrong thy dear ones, masters, brothers, and the rest, know as before that outer forces are working, and restrain t
hy wrath.

Whether it be wrought by a thing with or without thought, suffering is assured to living beings; it is found in whatever 
has thought; then bear with it.

Some in their blindness do wrong, others in their blindness are wroth with them; whom of these may we call blameless, or 
whom guilty?

Why hast thou of old done so that thou art thus afflicted now by others? All are under the sway of their own works; who a
m I to undo this?

Knowing this, I will strive to do righteousness, so that all may be full of love for one another.

When a house is burning, and the fire may fall upon the next house and seize upon the straw and like stuff within it, we 
carry this stuff away from it;

and in like manner must we straightway cast out the things by touch whereof the spirit is inflamed with the fire of wrath
, for fear lest the substance of our merit be consumed.

If a man doomed to death be released with one hand cut off, is it not well for him? and if one through human tribulations
escapes hell, is it not also well for him?

If one cannot bear the small suffering of the moment, then why does he not put away the wrath that will bring upon him th
e agonies of hell?

By reason of wrath I have been thus afflicted in hell thousands of times, and done no service to myself or to others.

My present tribulation is not so heavy, and will be very gainfull; let me be glad of a suffering that redeems the world f
rom its suffering.

If some find delight in praising one of high worth, why, O my spirit, dost thou not rejoice likewise in praising him?

Such joy will bring thee no blame; it will be a fountain of happiness; it is not forbidden by men of worth; it is the nob
lest way to win over thy fellows.

If thou art not pleased because he [who praises] is glad, then thou wouldst forbid such things as payment for service, an
d seen and unseen rewards alike perish.

Thou art willing for thy neighbour to be glad when he praises thy worth; but thou art loth to be thyself glad when anothe
r’s worth is praised.

Thou hast framed the Thought of Enlightenment in desire to make all creatures happy; then why now art thou wroth with cre
atures who of themselves find happiness?

