Whether one experiences constancy and devotion, or hostility—whether one experiences happiness or sorrow—great good may e
nsue.

One should be clever, endowed with energy, and always self-reliant.There is to be no dependence upon anyone in any act.

The Perfections, Charity, and the rest, are of an ascending order of excellence; he will not forsake a more excellent for
another, save in respect of the dyke of virtue.

Thus minded, he will be always active for the welfare of others; even a forbidden deed is permitted to him in his kindlin
ess, if he foresees a good result.

He will give of his alms to the fallen, the masterless, and the religious, and eat himself but a moderate portion; he wil
l surrender everything but his three robes.

He will not for slight purpose afflict his body, which is in the service of the Good Law; for thus it will speedily fulfi
l the desires of living beings.

And therefore he will not cast away his life for one whose spirit of mercy is impure, but only for one whose spirit is li
ke his own; and thus naught is lost.

One should not speak the doctrine to a person without dignity, or who [thinks himself] self-sufficient, or who wears a tu
rban;and not to an [arrogant] person with an umbrella, a rod, or a sword, or whose head is covered.

The profound and exalted should not be spoken to the vulgar, nor to women without a man present.One should bring equal re
spect to the inferior and the superior Dharma [Hīnayāna and Mahāyāna];

but one ought not to yoke to the inferior Dharma that which is appropriate to the superior Dharma;and having forsaken goo
d conduct, one ought not to deceive with scriptures and spells.

The display of a toothpick, the emission of snot, is not approved;and, also, urine and the like is forbidden in usable wa
ter and on good earth.

One ought not to eat with the mouth full, with noise, or with the mouth open.The foot ought not to be pendant, nor should
one fold the arms together.

One ought not to take a journey lying down or sitting with another’s woman.Having seen and investigated all that is disap
proved by the world, he should avoid it.

One ought not to use a finger to point.Rather—respectfully—he ought to use his full right hand even if he should point ou
t a road.

One ought not to make noise, throwing his arms about;but when one is a trifle hurried a snap of the fingers may be made. 
Otherwise one might be uncontrolled.

One ought to lie on a couch like the Lord in Nirvāṇa,facing the proper direction, thoughtful, and quick to arise accordin
g to command.

The rule of conduct taught by the Bodhisattvas is immeasurable;but one should always practice that conduct which leads to
the purification of the mind.

Three times by night and by day one should utilize the three “heaps of merit”.By means of this, and by taking refuge in t
he Conquerors and in the Thought of Enlightenment, the rest of one’s faults are quieted.

Whatever circumstances one may experience, either caused by himself or by others,he zealously should practice whatever ru
les apply just then.

There is nothing, once they accept the discipline, which is not to be understood by the sons of the Conqueror.There is no
thing which exists which is without merit to such a one.

